.TH T9NUMPAD 1 "2025" "t9numpad 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
t9numpad \- T9-style predictive text input daemon for USB numpads

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B t9numpad
[\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B t9numpad
grabs a numpad input device and translates digit key sequences into
predicted words, emitting them via a virtual keyboard (uinput).
It is designed to run as a background service and requires no GUI toolkit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c " " \fICONFIG\fR ", " \fB\-\-config\fR " " \fICONFIG\fR
Path to the TOML configuration file.
Defaults to
.IR /etc/t9numpad/t9numpad.toml .

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.

.SH NUMPAD LAYOUT
.nf
 [KP7=pqrs]  [KP8=tuv]   [KP9=wxyz]
 [KP4=ghi]   [KP5=jkl]   [KP6=mno]
 [KP1=abc]   [KP2=def]   [KP3=SPC]
 [KP0=BSP]   [KP.=commit] [ENTER=↵]
.fi

.PP
Press digit keys to enter a sequence, then
.B KP\-Decimal
to commit the predicted word.
.B KP0
deletes one digit from the current sequence, or emits a backspace when the sequence is empty.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file uses a TOML-subset syntax.
See
.B t9numpad.toml.example
for all available options and their defaults.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/t9numpad/t9numpad.toml
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/share/t9numpad/en.dict
Default English word-frequency dictionary.
.TP
.I /var/lib/t9numpad/learned.dict
User-adapted frequency data written at shutdown.

.SH PERMISSIONS
.B t9numpad
needs read access to the input device (typically
.IR /dev/input/event* )
and write access to
.IR /dev/uinput .
Add your user to the
.B input
group, install the bundled udev rule, and run without root:
.PP
.nf
sudo usermod -aG input $USER
sudo install -Dm644 /usr/lib/udev/rules.d/99-uinput.rules
udevadm control --reload-rules && udevadm trigger
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run once manually against a specific device:
.B t9numpad \-c /etc/t9numpad/t9numpad.toml

.TP
Enable and start the systemd service:
.nf
systemctl enable --now t9numpad.service
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Clean exit (SIGTERM / SIGINT received).
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error (configuration, device open, uinput setup).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR evtest (1),
.BR udevadm (8),
.BR systemctl (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/youruser/t9numpad/issues

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v2.0 or later.
